docs: game time (#164)
rune/rune: docs/docs/multiplayer/time.md

---
sidebar_position: 61
---

> # Time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Time-Based Logic
```

> ## Game time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Game Time
```

We capitalize subtitles

> If your game requires access to time, Rune exposes `Rune.gameTimeInSeconds()` that you can use inside logic.js.
> Calling it returns the amount of seconds that have passed since the start of the game.
> 
> At the moment Rune allows timers with an accuracy of a second.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rune exposes `Rune.gameTimeInSeconds()` that you can use inside logic.js, which returns the amount of seconds that have passed since the start of the game. At the moment Rune provides time precision of a second, which should work well for most casual game purposes.
```

For instance this could be used to track how long it took for user to make a guess:

```javascript
// logic.js

Rune.initLogic({
  setup() {
    return {
      guessRequestedAt: 0,
      guessDuration: 0
    };
  },
  actions: {
    requestGuess(_, {game}) {
      game.guessRequestedAt = Rune.gameTimeInSeconds();
    },
    confirmGuess(_, {game}) {
      game.guessDuration = Rune.gameTimeInSeconds() - game.guessDuration;
    }
  }
})

> ```

Reviewer: How about we use a quiz score example instead, where the score depends on the time it took to answer? I think that might be a more common use case :)

Reviewer: I think it might also be good to use examples that support multiple simultaneous players. We could consider using the examples from the initial time-syncing scope document?

Author: I've switched to quiz example. I just have a feeling that it is a bit too complicated to easily indicate the usage of gameTimeInSeconds.

## Update function

> If your game requires some logic to run every second, Rune allows you to provide `update` function inside `logic.js`.
> 
> When game state is changed inside `update` function, `onChange` inside `client.js` is called with `update` event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can provide an `update` function inside your `logic.js` file to run game logic every second. When game state is changed inside your `update` function, the `onChange` inside `client.js` is called with `update` event.

Here’s an example of how a game could implement that players have to make a move within 30 seconds or else their turn will pass:
```

```javascript
// logic.js

Rune.initLogic({
  setup() {
    return {
      allowToGuess: false,
      guessRequestedAt: 0,
      guessDuration: 0
    };
  },
  actions: {
    requestGuess(_, {game}) {
      game.allowToGuess = true;
      game.guessRequestedAt = Rune.gameTimeInSeconds();
    },
    confirmGuess(_, {game}) {
      game.guessDuration = Rune.gameTimeInSeconds() - game.guessDuration;
    }
  },
  update: ({game}) => {
    //Check if 30 seconds have passed, then disallow guessing
    if (game.allowToGuess && Rune.gameTimeInSeconds() - game.guessRequestedAt > 30) {
      game.allowToGuess = false
    }
  }
})
```

## `timeSync` event

Running timers and keeping them in sync requires quite a lot of complexity.
Lets take an example:
* Client executes an action when gameTime is at second 4.
* Server receives the action, but server is already at second 5.
* Every client receives that the action was executed at 5th second.

In this scenario the client that executed the action will receive `timeSync` event, 

> indicating that something has changed due to action being executed at different time.

Reviewer: I'd suggest we reverse it to start by describing `timeSync` event, then give the example. We can also leave out the complexity part as Rune handles that and we wouldn't want anyone to think that they'd have to deal with the complexity :)
